README.md, before:

# runners

A small SDK for writing runners that can be executed by an API orchestrator or a local CLI, without worrying about browsers, containers, or regions.

You write tiny runner functions:

```ts
// src/runners/cookie-banner-visible.ts
import { z } from "zod";
import type { Runner } from "runners";
import { withPlaywright } from "runners/playwright";

const CookieBannerInputSchema = z.object({
  url: z.string(),
});

export const cookieBannerVisibleTest: Runner<
  z.infer<typeof CookieBannerInputSchema>
> = async (ctx, input) => {
  "use runner";

  if (!input?.url) {
    throw new Error("url is required in input");
  }
  const { page, url, region, log } = await withPlaywright(ctx, input.url);

  log("Checking cookie banner", { url, region });

  const banner = page
    .locator("[data-cookie-banner], .cookie-banner, #cookie-banner")
    .first();
  const visible = await banner.isVisible();

  return {
    name: "cookie_banner_visible",
    status: visible ? "pass" : "fail",
    details: { visible },
  };
};
```

The `runners` SDK takes care of:

* handling timeouts and errors
* normalising results
* exposing a HTTP handler for remote orchestration
* exposing a CLI command for local or CI use

Playwright is opt-in via `withPlaywright()` - use it only when you need browser functionality.

The same runner file can be run:

* locally in your terminal
* in a container in a specific region
* behind an HTTP API that a workflow engine calls

---

## Status

This is an early work in progress, shaped README first.
APIs described here are the target surface and may change slightly as the implementation lands.

---

## Installation

```bash
npm install runners
# or
pnpm add runners
# or
yarn add runners
```

---

## Core concepts

**Runner**

A single Playwright based runner, expressed as an async function that:

* receives a `RunnerContext`
* returns a `RunnerResult`

**Runner Harness**

Something that:

* loads a URL in Playwright
* executes one or more `Runner` functions against it
* returns normalised JSON

**Orchestrator**

Anything that:

* decides which URLs, regions and runners to run
* calls one or more runner harnesses
* stores and aggregates results

`runners` only handles the **runner** part and the small harness around it. Your own code can be the orchestrator, or you can wire it into a workflow engine.

---

## Writing your first runner

Create a file anywhere in `src/`:

```ts
// src/runners/example-title-visible.ts
import { z } from "zod";
import type { Runner } from "runners";
import { withPlaywright } from "runners/playwright";

const ExampleTitleInputSchema = z.object({
  url: z.string(),
});

export const exampleTitleVisibleTest: Runner<
  z.infer<typeof ExampleTitleInputSchema>
> = async (ctx, input) => {
  "use runner";

  if (!input?.url) {
    throw new Error("url is required in input");
  }
  const { page, url, log } = await withPlaywright(ctx, input.url);

  log("Checking page title", { url });

  const title = await page.title();
  const ok = title.length > 0;

  return {
    name: "example_title_visible",
    status: ok ? "pass" : "fail",
    details: { title },
  };
};
```

The `"use runner"` directive is required for runner discovery. It tells the runner harness that this function should be executed as a runner.

Only functions with this directive will be discovered as runners.
This allows you to have helper functions or utilities in the same file without them being treated as runners.

### Context

The minimal `RunnerContext` looks like:

```ts
type RunnerContext = {
  region?: string;
  runId?: string;
  log: (message: string, meta?: Record<string, unknown>) => void;
};
```

For Playwright functionality, use `withPlaywright(ctx, url)` from `runners/playwright` to get an enhanced context:

```ts
import { withPlaywright } from "runners/playwright";

const { page, url, region, log } = await withPlaywright(ctx, input.url);
```

This gives you a `PlaywrightContext` that extends `RunnerContext` with `page` and `url`.

---

## Running runners locally (CLI)

Install the CLI (same package):

```bash
npx runners run \
  --url https://example.com \
  exampleTitleVisibleTest \
  cookieBannerVisibleTest
```

The `--url` flag is optional. If provided, it will be passed to runners via their input schema. Runners that need Playwright should accept `url` in their input and use `withPlaywright()`.

By default the CLI will:

* scan `src/**/*.ts` for runner files
* discover only exported async functions that have the `"use runner"` directive
* run the requested runners
* print a summary and exit non zero on failures

You can provide a config file to avoid long flags:

```bash
npx runners run --config runners.config.ts
```

### Directive-based runner discovery

The CLI only discovers runners that have the `"use runner"` directive. This ensures that helper functions and utilities in your runner files are not accidentally executed as runners.

* **Module-level directive**: If a file has `"use runner";` at the top, all exported async functions in that file are considered runners
* **Function-level directive**: If a function has `"use runner";` as its first statement, that function is considered a runner

Example with function-level directive:

```ts
export const myRunner: Runner = async (ctx) => {
  "use runner";
  // ... runner implementation
};
```

Example with module-level directive:

```ts
"use runner";

export const runner1: Runner = async (ctx) => {
  // ... runner implementation
};

export const runner2: Runner = async (ctx) => {
  // ... runner implementation
};
```

Example `runners.config.ts`:

```ts
import { defineConfig } from "runners/config";

export default defineConfig({
  url: "https://example.com", // Optional - will be passed to runners via input
  region: "eu-west-1",
  runners: ["cookieBannerVisibleTest", "exampleTitleVisibleTest"],
});
```

---

## Using runners behind an API

You can expose a runner as an HTTP endpoint, for use by an orchestrator:

```ts
// api/runner.ts
import { createHttpRunner } from "@runners/http";
import * as runners from "../runners";

const region = process.env.RUNNER_REGION || "eu-west-1";

export const handler = createHttpRunner({
  runners,
  region,
});
```

`createHttpRunner` produces a request handler with a simple JSON contract.

### Request

```json
{
  "url": "https://example.com",
  "runners": ["cookieBannerVisibleTest"],
  "runId": "optional-run-id",
  "input": {
    "url": "https://example.com"
  }
}
```

The `url` field is optional. If provided, it will be merged into the `input` object passed to runners. Runners that need Playwright should accept `url` in their input schema and use `withPlaywright()`.

### Response

```json
{
  "region": "eu-west-1",
  "runId": "optional-run-id",
  "results": [
    {
      "name": "cookie_banner_visible",
      "status": "pass",
      "details": { "visible": true },
      "durationMs": 1234
    }
  ]
}
```

You can deploy this handler in multiple regions and let your own orchestrator decide which runner endpoint to call for which region.

---

## Framework adapters

You can mount a runner behind your existing framework without wiring HTTP handlers by hand. The adapters expose a `/api/runner` style endpoint (or equivalent) that accepts JSON input and returns normalised results.

### Next.js

Wrap your `next.config` with the `withRunners` helper:

```ts
// next.config.mts or next.config.js

import type { NextConfig } from "next";

import { withRunners } from "runner/next";

const nextConfig: NextConfig = {
  // your existing Next.js config here
};

export default withRunners(nextConfig);
```

This will:

* register an API route such as `/api/runner`
* load runners from your `runners/` directory
* use the current deployment region (or a `RUNNER_REGION` env variable) in the context

You can then point your orchestrator at:

```http
POST /api/runner
Content-Type: application/json

{
  "url": "https://example.com",
  "runners": ["cookieBannerVisibleTest"],
  "runId": "my-run-id"
}
```

and receive the standard runner JSON result.

### Nitro / Hono

If you are using Nitro (which Hono can run under), you can enable the runner via a module:

```ts
// nitro.config.ts

import { defineConfig } from "nitro";

export default defineConfig({
  modules: ["runner/nitro"],
  routes: {
    "/**": "./src/index.ts",
  },
});
```

The `runner/nitro` module will:

* register a runner endpoint (for example `/api/runner`)
* wire in your `runners/` directory
* attach region and run metadata to the context

Your Hono app then focuses purely on your normal routes, while the runner endpoint is handled by the adapter.

---

## Programmatic usage

You can also use `runners` directly from Node without HTTP or the CLI:

```ts
import { runRunners } from "runners";
import * as runners from "./runners";

// Pass url via runner input if needed
const result = await runRunners({
  runners: [
    async (ctx) => {
      return runners.cookieBannerVisibleTest(ctx, { url: "https://example.com" });
    },
  ],
  region: "eu-west-1",
  runId: "local-dev",
});

console.log(result.results);
```

---

## Types

The main public types are:

```ts
import type { Runner, RunnerContext, RunnerResult } from "runners";
```

Roughly:

```ts
type RunStatus = "pass" | "fail" | "error";

type RunnerResult = {
  name: string;
  status: RunStatus;
  details?: Record<string, unknown>;
  errorMessage?: string;
  durationMs?: number;
};

type Runner = (ctx: RunnerContext) => Promise<RunnerResult>;
```

The exact shape may grow with more metadata, but this is the core.

---

## What this project is and is not

This project **is**:

* a small SDK for defining runners as pure functions
* a runner harness that handles execution and results
* a thin HTTP and CLI surface around that runner
* Playwright support via opt-in `withPlaywright()` helper

This project **is not**:

* a full workflow engine
* a reporting dashboard
* a replacement for Playwright Test

You are expected to bring your own orchestrator, database and UI if you want a full platform. `runners` gives you the execution building block.

---

## Roadmap

Planned for early versions:

* [x] Basic runner SDK ✅
* [x] Opt-in Playwright support via `withPlaywright()` ✅
* [x] CLI with `run` command and config file ✅
* [x] HTTP handler helper for API based runners ✅
* [x] Simple runner discovery in a `runners/` folder ✅
* [x] Minimal logging hooks ✅
* [ ] Examples with multi region deployment

Pull requests and early feedback are very welcome.

Commit message:

Enhance documentation and examples for runners SDK: - Updated README.md to include Playwright browser installation instructions. - Added new example README files for basic CLI usage and example runners, detailing setup, configuration, and execution. - Improved Hono example documentation with Playwright integration notes and updated API endpoint information. - Introduced comprehensive usage guidelines for the runners SDK across various packages, ensuring clarity and ease of use.

README.md, after:

# runners

A small SDK for writing runners that can be executed by an API orchestrator or a local CLI, without worrying about browsers, containers, or regions.

You write tiny runner functions:

```ts
// src/runners/cookie-banner-visible.ts
import { z } from "zod";
import type { Runner } from "runners";
import { withPlaywright } from "runners/playwright";

const CookieBannerInputSchema = z.object({
  url: z.string(),
});

export const cookieBannerVisibleTest: Runner<
  z.infer<typeof CookieBannerInputSchema>
> = async (ctx, input) => {
  "use runner";

  if (!input?.url) {
    throw new Error("url is required in input");
  }
  const { page, url, region, log } = await withPlaywright(ctx, input.url);

  log("Checking cookie banner", { url, region });

  const banner = page
    .locator("[data-cookie-banner], .cookie-banner, #cookie-banner")
    .first();
  const visible = await banner.isVisible();

  return {
    name: "cookie_banner_visible",
    status: visible ? "pass" : "fail",
    details: { visible },
  };
};
```

The `runners` SDK takes care of:

* handling timeouts and errors
* normalising results
* exposing a HTTP handler for remote orchestration
* exposing a CLI command for local or CI use

Playwright is opt-in via `withPlaywright()` - use it only when you need browser functionality.

The same runner file can be run:

* locally in your terminal
* in a container in a specific region
* behind an HTTP API that a workflow engine calls

---

## Status

This is an early work in progress, shaped README first.
APIs described here are the target surface and may change slightly as the implementation lands.

---

## Installation

```bash
npm install runners
# or
pnpm add runners
# or
yarn add runners
```

**If you're using Playwright runners**, install Playwright browsers:

```bash
npx playwright install
# or
pnpm exec playwright install
# or
yarn playwright install
```

This only needs to be done once per machine. If you see an error about Playwright executables not existing, run this command.

---

## Core concepts

**Runner**

A single Playwright based runner, expressed as an async function that:

* receives a `RunnerContext`
* returns a `RunnerResult`

**Runner Harness**

Something that:

* loads a URL in Playwright
* executes one or more `Runner` functions against it
* returns normalised JSON

**Orchestrator**

Anything that:

* decides which URLs, regions and runners to run
* calls one or more runner harnesses
* stores and aggregates results

`runners` only handles the **runner** part and the small harness around it. Your own code can be the orchestrator, or you can wire it into a workflow engine.

---

## Writing your first runner

Create a file anywhere in `src/`:

```ts
// src/runners/example-title-visible.ts
import { z } from "zod";
import type { Runner } from "runners";
import { withPlaywright } from "runners/playwright";

const ExampleTitleInputSchema = z.object({
  url: z.string(),
});

export const exampleTitleVisibleTest: Runner<
  z.infer<typeof ExampleTitleInputSchema>
> = async (ctx, input) => {
  "use runner";

  if (!input?.url) {
    throw new Error("url is required in input");
  }
  const { page, url, log } = await withPlaywright(ctx, input.url);

  log("Checking page title", { url });

  const title = await page.title();
  const ok = title.length > 0;

  return {
    name: "example_title_visible",
    status: ok ? "pass" : "fail",
    details: { title },
  };
};
```

The `"use runner"` directive is required for runner discovery. It tells the runner harness that this function should be executed as a runner.

Only functions with this directive will be discovered as runners.
This allows you to have helper functions or utilities in the same file without them being treated as runners.

### Context

The minimal `RunnerContext` looks like:

```ts
type RunnerContext = {
  region?: string;
  runId?: string;
  log: (message: string, meta?: Record<string, unknown>) => void;
};
```

For Playwright functionality, use `withPlaywright(ctx, url)` from `runners/playwright` to get an enhanced context:

```ts
import { withPlaywright } from "runners/playwright";

const { page, url, region, log } = await withPlaywright(ctx, input.url);
```

This gives you a `PlaywrightContext` that extends `RunnerContext` with `page` and `url`.

---

## Running runners locally (CLI)

Install the CLI (same package):

```bash
npx runners run \
  --url https://example.com \
  exampleTitleVisibleTest \
  cookieBannerVisibleTest
```

The `--url` flag is optional. If provided, it will be passed to runners via their input schema. Runners that need Playwright should accept `url` in their input and use `withPlaywright()`.

By default the CLI will:

* scan `src/**/*.ts` for runner files
* discover only exported async functions that have the `"use runner"` directive
* run the requested runners
* print a summary and exit non zero on failures

You can provide a config file to avoid long flags:

```bash
npx runners run --config runners.config.ts
```

### Directive-based runner discovery

The CLI only discovers runners that have the `"use runner"` directive. This ensures that helper functions and utilities in your runner files are not accidentally executed as runners.

* **Module-level directive**: If a file has `"use runner";` at the top, all exported async functions in that file are considered runners
* **Function-level directive**: If a function has `"use runner";` as its first statement, that function is considered a runner

Example with function-level directive:

```ts
export const myRunner: Runner = async (ctx) => {
  "use runner";
  // ... runner implementation
};
```

Example with module-level directive:

```ts
"use runner";

export const runner1: Runner = async (ctx) => {
  // ... runner implementation
};

export const runner2: Runner = async (ctx) => {
  // ... runner implementation
};
```

Example `runners.config.ts`:

```ts
import { defineConfig } from "runners/config";

export default defineConfig({
  url: "https://example.com", // Optional - will be passed to runners via input
  region: "eu-west-1",
  runners: ["cookieBannerVisibleTest", "exampleTitleVisibleTest"],
});
```

---

## Using runners behind an API

You can expose a runner as an HTTP endpoint, for use by an orchestrator:

```ts
// api/runner.ts
import { createHttpRunner } from "@runners/http";
import * as runners from "../runners";

const region = process.env.RUNNER_REGION || "eu-west-1";

export const handler = createHttpRunner({
  runners,
  region,
});
```

`createHttpRunner` produces a request handler with a simple JSON contract.

### Request

```json
{
  "url": "https://example.com",
  "runners": ["cookieBannerVisibleTest"],
  "runId": "optional-run-id",
  "input": {
    "url": "https://example.com"
  }
}
```

The `url` field is optional. If provided, it will be merged into the `input` object passed to runners. Runners that need Playwright should accept `url` in their input schema and use `withPlaywright()`.

### Response

```json
{
  "region": "eu-west-1",
  "runId": "optional-run-id",
  "results": [
    {
      "name": "cookie_banner_visible",
      "status": "pass",
      "details": { "visible": true },
      "durationMs": 1234
    }
  ]
}
```

You can deploy this handler in multiple regions and let your own orchestrator decide which runner endpoint to call for which region.

---

## Framework adapters

You can mount a runner behind your existing framework without wiring HTTP handlers by hand. The adapters expose a `/api/runner` style endpoint (or equivalent) that accepts JSON input and returns normalised results.

### Next.js

Wrap your `next.config` with the `withRunners` helper:

```ts
// next.config.mts or next.config.js

import type { NextConfig } from "next";

import { withRunners } from "runner/next";

const nextConfig: NextConfig = {
  // your existing Next.js config here
};

export default withRunners(nextConfig);
```

This will:

* register an API route such as `/api/runner`
* load runners from your `runners/` directory
* use the current deployment region (or a `RUNNER_REGION` env variable) in the context

You can then point your orchestrator at:

```http
POST /api/runner
Content-Type: application/json

{
  "url": "https://example.com",
  "runners": ["cookieBannerVisibleTest"],
  "runId": "my-run-id"
}
```

and receive the standard runner JSON result.

### Nitro / Hono

If you are using Nitro (which Hono can run under), you can enable the runner via a module:

```ts
// nitro.config.ts

import { defineConfig } from "nitro";

export default defineConfig({
  modules: ["runner/nitro"],
  routes: {
    "/**": "./src/index.ts",
  },
});
```

The `runner/nitro` module will:

* register a runner endpoint (for example `/api/runner`)
* wire in your `runners/` directory
* attach region and run metadata to the context

Your Hono app then focuses purely on your normal routes, while the runner endpoint is handled by the adapter.

---

## Programmatic usage

You can also use `runners` directly from Node without HTTP or the CLI:

```ts
import { runRunners } from "runners";
import * as runners from "./runners";

// Pass url via runner input if needed
const result = await runRunners({
  runners: [
    async (ctx) => {
      return runners.cookieBannerVisibleTest(ctx, { url: "https://example.com" });
    },
  ],
  region: "eu-west-1",
  runId: "local-dev",
});

console.log(result.results);
```

---

## Types

The main public types are:

```ts
import type { Runner, RunnerContext, RunnerResult } from "runners";
```

Roughly:

```ts
type RunStatus = "pass" | "fail" | "error";

type RunnerResult = {
  name: string;
  status: RunStatus;
  details?: Record<string, unknown>;
  errorMessage?: string;
  durationMs?: number;
};

type Runner = (ctx: RunnerContext) => Promise<RunnerResult>;
```

The exact shape may grow with more metadata, but this is the core.

---

## What this project is and is not

This project **is**:

* a small SDK for defining runners as pure functions
* a runner harness that handles execution and results
* a thin HTTP and CLI surface around that runner
* Playwright support via opt-in `withPlaywright()` helper

This project **is not**:

* a full workflow engine
* a reporting dashboard
* a replacement for Playwright Test

You are expected to bring your own orchestrator, database and UI if you want a full platform. `runners` gives you the execution building block.

---

## Roadmap

Planned for early versions:

* [x] Basic runner SDK ✅
* [x] Opt-in Playwright support via `withPlaywright()` ✅
* [x] CLI with `run` command and config file ✅
* [x] HTTP handler helper for API based runners ✅
* [x] Simple runner discovery in a `runners/` folder ✅
* [x] Minimal logging hooks ✅
* [ ] Examples with multi region deployment

Pull requests and early feedback are very welcome.
